[Music]
what does zero mean to you me well it
was a familiar grade when I got my
homework back from the teacher but do
you think it's just nothing
yeah me too until they realized what our
world would look like if you took away
zero for just a day and if you like a
good math challenge stick around until
the end to help me solve the most
impossible task out there
a world without zero you might be
surprised to learn that zero hasn't been
around forever yes we used to live in a
world without it well an understanding
of the concept of zero at least it was
invented in India during the fifth
century and here it's closely connected
with the ancient culture of this region
Nirvana is what they call absolute
calmness the absence of anxieties and
desires so they came up with a circular
symbol denoting this nothing they called
it Shinya the image of zero itself
symbolizes the life cycle or as it's
also called the snake of eternity yes
for them zero also meant infinity we'll
come back full circle to this idea later
on this new revolutionary concept was
eventually picked up by the Arabs and
included in their numerical system which
we all use to this day but why did it
take humanity so long to understand
something as basic as zero well think
about it it's not exactly something you
can observe every day you can see those
three birds perched on a tree branch or
those two bees flying around your one
can of soda but zero the absence of
something you never see it never think
about it because it's not there for you
to perceive yet zero is so incredibly
important life today
without zero we've come a long way since
the fifth century like 16 more centuries
zero now has countless uses and a modern
world's trip to this basic concept would
look very different indeed your first
thought might be that we can no longer
count higher than nine
or lower than one I mean 10 has a zero
in it right sure there would be no
counting but no means none fractions
like point eight zero four are lower
than one and nine point zero one is
higher than nine the entire system of
counting and measuring would break down
without zero from there you can say
goodbye to computers all your social
media online games YouTube videos you
won't get to enjoy them in this zero
list dystopia the foundation of any
computer program is binary code and this
code consists of 0 and 1 while you're at
it forget about TV charging your gadgets
reheating food in the microwave even
just turning the lights on oh wow we're
already in the dark ages that was quick
without 0 we couldn't calculate
electricity no more Bond movies or
cinemas for that matter movie theater
projectors work by showing 24 frames per
second you gotta count that from zero
Hey look on the bright side like we're
always telling you - no more stepping on
that scale and hoping the number will
magically go down on its own clothing
sizes and counting calories won't exist
either
on that note how will doctors do
physicals there won't be an
understanding of height and weight all
that electronic equipment in hospitals
wouldn't work either MRIs x-rays
electrocardiograph s-- we wouldn't even
be able to count a person's pulse rate
without zero there'd be chaos with
transport you wouldn't be able to fill
up your car speed limits would mean
nothing they measure how much higher
you're going than zero miles per hour
right the prime meridian that's zero
degrees longitude on the globe won't be
a thing which means modern navigation
goes with it without it planes and ships
will be rendered useless GPS gone how
could it measure the distance between
two places without a starting point it
wouldn't even get that far without
satellites yep they wouldn't work either
since they use binary code if people
can't travel then towns will become
isolated
we'd probably even go back to horses and
buggies and paper map
hmm looks like we could use another cup
half full example although can't really
measure the contents of that cup without
0 well at least your alarm clock will
never ring again and you won't need to
go to work schedules and money now mean
nothing a wait but then grocery stores
won't be able to stay open price tags
inventory and of course the freezers and
refrigerators that store perishables you
probably need to beef up your farming
skills and become completely
self-sufficient because in a world
without zero entire economic systems
will cease to be mightor mathematics
geometry physics and other exact
Sciences would disappear in fact we
wouldn't be able to measure time itself
there would be no dates or years you
wouldn't even be able to celebrate your
birthday or know how old you are and
that brings me to my final point the
philosophical in numerology zero is the
beginning the source of all numbers it
practically symbolizes the root cause of
everything yeah what about negative
numbers hey I hear you and they go back
from zero without this oh so critical
starting point you can't move in time or
numerology either way every atom
substance and molecule in the universe
came from something and that something
is zero time is measured from it right
the universe started with a bang and
space-time has been expanding from there
without time there's nothing no planets
spinning on their axis and revolving
around stars no constellations or
galaxies it all goes well zero is a
little more than nothing now isn't it of
course don't expect any zero apocalypses
to ever happen this is all purely
hypothetical but even though the absence
of this number is downright terrifying
zero is still incredibly fascinating to
understand what I'm talking about
you need to immerse yourself in
mathematics like in a hot tub
math the impossible equation you can add
zero subtract it and multiply by it but
you cannot divide by zero
you might remember your math teacher
stressing that point but did you ever
wonder why that is I mean it works the
other way around you can divide 0 by
another number for example you can have
zero pieces of gum your packs empty
bummer and your five friends each ask
you for a piece so that's zero divided
by five which equals zero
everybody gets no piece of gum because
there was none from the start but if you
switch that around and punch 5 divided
by zero into a calculator what do you
get error yeah it's a little confusing I
know so let's find out what's so
impossible and senseless about dividing
by zero with a fun little project grab a
pen and a piece of paper and draw a
horizontal number line the beginning of
the line is zero and then it goes 1 2 3
and so on now you need to refresh some
knowledge from your school days namely
what inverse numbers are these are two
numbers whose product is equal to unity
I'll explain with an example look at
number 2 its inverse will be 1/2 1 over
2 the same goes for any other number the
inverse of 5 is 1 over 5 6 is 1 over 6
and so on
it's short we divide the unit by the
main number 1 2 & 3 and get its inverse
it doesn't matter what the original
number is 2 versus 1/2 10 versus 1/10
500 vs. 1 5 hundredths the inverse will
always be closer to 0
it'll never fall below zero and it won't
go above 1 as for zero this in verse
number equation will never work with it
now for my favorite part the further any
number is from zero 3 32 190 to 500 the
closer to zero its inverse gets one
third one thirty second one 190 second
one five hundredths
and the closer the inverse number is to
zero the further down this number is
from the starting point zero in our
number line now imagine this starting
point can you create the number whose
inverse is equal to 0 0 is less than any
positive number so it's inverse should
be greater than any positive number
which number is greater than any number
the answer is infinity this is why you
can't divide by 0 the result is infinity
which is something our brains just can't
grasp 0 and infinity two seemingly
opposite concepts come hand-in-hand and
are equally incomprehensible we might
not entirely understand 0 but one
thing's for sure we can't live without
it well pitcher wasn't plenty of nothing
now was it
aren't you happy we zeroed in on that
aren't you sick of these jokes hey if
you learn something new today then give
the video a like and share it with a
friend and here are some other cool
videos I think you'll enjoy just click
to the left or right and remember stay
on the bright side of life